a protocol really sticks out in there
are P de Charny genre in in terms of the
theme what did you choose to go with
with that theme for your next RPG we
wanted to do something different from
fantasy different from sci-fi and by
doing that we're able to not only use a
new RPG system different getting away
from dice rolls we're also able to take
on kind of more mature themes and things
that carry different weight and a
fantasy theme and a science-fiction
theme we're more removed and morality is
very clear good or bad in the spy world
today things are more interesting
there's kind of a gray morality and less
clear right and wrong answers or good
and bad answers so we're really excited
enough protocol to be able to offer
these interesting different factions and
different deeper choices than then we
get in a more fantasy or sci-fi setting
well you play Mike Thornton and he's a
agent that you can kind of project a
character upon you really don't see much
when you you know every whenever you see
a screenshot or a picture of them you
don't see much character that's
represented through them and that's what
we don't we've done on purpose RPGs base
characters don't really have much
personality it's about what you do to
them along the way that brings the
personality not only how they how they
talk how they react to people you can
get that across by what you wear to and
you want to kind of dress the part if
you're going into combat if you're going
into to just meet up contact or an asset
that puts even greater demand someday
the other characters in the game to be
more flamboyant and more have more
personality that's something you dress
absolutely we want the most interesting
characters we can we can have early on
when we were developing the game
everybody wore suits and it wasn't
really interesting and then we kind of
we kind of evolved the characters we
want to have them a great personality we
kind of use the Kill Bill test is it
something that almost could be could be
in Kill Bill are these people kind of
over-the-top enough and larger-than-life
yet still set in the real world setting
this spy world in this conspiracy going
on can you tell us a little bit how the
gameplay mechanics of an RPG can be
translated into something that that at
least on the surface looks more
real time based we we've really focused
on trying to move the RPG system from
dice rolls d20 we want to do something
new that's not new for for a lot of the
guys at obsidian who've made a lot of
RPG systems but we want to do something
that again moved away from dice rolls
because when you're not a third person
action game you want to actually be
shooting we're all used to used to being
behind the camera and pulling the
trigger and us getting a hit so we want
to use real hit detection but that
doesn't mean that there's a deep RPG
system underneath we put we put kind of
a these skills in these passive skills
and active skills like being able to
critical hit enacting active skills like
bullet time which we've kind of compared
to magic but it's what you see in action
movies it's you know having an unlimited
clip for a certain amount of time or
slowing down time being able to pick a
couple key key shots if you're trying to
sneak around so we've used all the
references for the fun action movies fun
action games we've played the abilities
and kind of layered and RPG elements on
all that to make a really deep deep RPG
experience using real-time combat
speaking of the choices can you give an
example of such a great area and the
instance of where you could do different
two different choices and none of them
is the right one in in one of the levels
we actually come across an arms dealer
he's a black market arms dealer and kind
of tied to some not so savory things
going around the world so we haven't we
have an option when we when we get to
him when we find out where he is when we
kind of track him down we can arrest him
like we've been we've been asked to do
we can we could shoot him on sight we
can make sure that nobody else can
influence him he can't kind of escape
the law and deal our own brand of
justice we could also extort him a black
market arms dealer is going to have a
lot of weapons going to have a lot of
money we could try and take that from a
little blackmail and a little bit give
him a little piece of his own of what he
does to do what he does the rest of the
world so none of those are really
clearly the right answer you know you
there's a lot of trust involved and you
have to know the other factions you're
dealing with in order to understand
understand the choices but they're going
to influence how the story plays out in
front of you download
so when we will get to play alpha
protocol alpha protocol comes out on the
playstation 3 xbox 360 and pc in
February 2009 thank you very much for
time thank you